# SpaceAPI Telco April 2018

    Date: 2018-04-21
    Location: The Internet
    Who: Danilo, Raphi, Timm

Previous meeting: [20180106-telco.md](20180106-telco.md)
Next meeting: [20180605-telco.md](20180605-telco.md)

## 1. Agenda

* Directory
* API Docs
* Meeting with hackerspaces.org at GPN
* Status of Community Projects
* Specs / Directory Format
* Code of Conduct

## 2. Directory

* Timm built a minimal prototype in Go to play around with
* Should we pursue this? -> Yes
  * Scope: Take the static directory, add filtering and checking
  * In order to get more contributions, using Python or Go would probably be best
  * A very simple validator already exists [here](https://github.com/fixme-lausanne/OpenSpaceDirectory/blob/master/update_spaces.py)
* MVP
  * Remove unreachable endpoints
  * Machine readable (json)
  * Directory json scheme documented
  * Versioned API?
    * V0 returns the same as the currently available static directory 
    * V1 returns array for supported SpaceAPI versions?
* Future ideas
  * Add new endpoints
  * Caching
  * History
  * Converting between versions (Space provides 0.13 we convert to 0.14)
  * Try to correct errors?
    * Or warn admin about problems
* Timm will put MVP implementation on GitHub for future development

## 3. API Docs

* Exists at https://spacedirectory.org/pages/docs.html generated with [hacky Python script](https://github.com/spacedirectory/spacedirectory.org/blob/master/generate_api_docs.py) from schema
  * Some stuff is missing (enums)
  * Should be extended -> Danilo
* Old documentation is available on archive.org
* We want to use the Python script for now and extend it to our needs.
* Add examples to docs

## 4. Meeting with hackerspaces.org at GPN

* hackerspaces.org will be rebooted
  * responsible are:
    * mwfc
    * Konfusius
    * Hauro
    * reachable via irc
      * freenode.net/#hackerspaces
      * freenode.net/#hsorg-team 

## 5. Status of Community Projects

The [spaceapi-community](https://github.com/spaceapi-community) GitHub organization is being actively used: Currently 8 repositories and 5 members.

* Coredump moved Rust implementation to spaceapi-community
  * [spaceapi-community/spaceapi-rs](https://github.com/spaceapi-community/spaceapi-rs)
  * [spaceapi-community/spaceapi-server-rs](https://github.com/spaceapi-community/spaceapi-server-rs)
* New project: Generic Sensor logger with InfluxDB-Support (Grafana)
  * [spaceapi-community/spaceapi-sensor-logger](https://github.com/spaceapi-community/spaceapi-sensor-logger)
  * Example: https://grafana.coredump.ch/d/000000003/spaceapi
* Hackerspace globe [works again](http://spaceapi-community.github.io/hackerspace-globe/) ([source code](https://github.com/spaceapi-community/hackerspace-globe))
* [Wordpress widget](https://github.com/spaceapi-community/spaceapi-wp-widget) also in the community orga
* Validator
  * Exists at https://validator.spacedirectory.org/v1/
  * Code: https://github.com/spacedirectory/validator
  * Should be provided by official repository
  * API should return machine parseable error descriptions (which fields are invalid, etc.)

## 6. Specs / Directory Format

* Also specify directory format, see above
* Simplify directory?
  * List of URLs, one per line? Name -> URL mapping should be provided by directory server
  * Create repository for directory schema
* Multi version endpoints? Lots of people complained about the switch from 0.12 to 0.13
   
    ```json
    {
        "coredump": {
            "0.12": "https://status.crdmp.ch/0_12/",
            "0.13": "https://status.crdmp.ch/newshit/"
        }
    }
    ```

## 7. Code of Conduct

* During the SpaceAPI geekend we said we want a CoC for the project
* Use the "default" CoC from GitHub as a starting point
* CoC is for the whole SpaceAPI project
* Place it in the website repository and make it available on the website

## 8. Various

* Replace caddy with Traefik?
  * https://docs.traefik.io/
  * Why? Caddy has a strange license model
  * Timm will create an Ansible PR
* Should we announce our telcos on IRC? -> More people could join
  * Makes it unproductive if we have new people which don't know about the project
  * Allow spectators -> would need different telco software: https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/
  * Spectators should be allowed to write text comments
* Website
* Publish protocols on GitHub?
  * Danilo will create a protocols repository

## 9. Next Steps

Timm

* [x] Contact @blinry again
* [x] Create pull request with Traefik config
  * [pull request](https://github.com/SpaceApi/provisioning/pull/26)
* [x] Add CoC to website repo
  * [pull request](https://github.com/SpaceApi/SpaceApi.github.io/pull/3)
* [x] Timm will put MVP implementation on GitHub for future development
  * [repo](https://github.com/gidsi/spaceapi-directory)
* [x] Contact @rohieb to ask if heâ€™s interested in helping

Danilo

* ~~Fix docs, add missing info like enums~~
* Add protocols to Github and add link to website
* Improve validator (currently at spacedirectory.org)

Raphi

* Add examples to spacedirectory.org API docs
* Move https://github.com/spacedirectory/validator to github/SpaceAPI

## 10. Next Meeting / Telco

* Meeting during Cosin?
  * Danilo, Raphi will be present, maybe also Timm
* Next TelCo: 2018-06-05 20:00, duration maximum 2 hours
* Do it with https://meet.jit.si/
